Basics of Networks and Internet


For the beginning of the lesson we will install Fing app on mobile phone or pc/laptop and scan the Wi-Fi network
We can see the connected devices and the IP address of that devices. 
Also with Fing we can see and track other people's devices if they are connected to a Wi-Fi network. 
After the scan we will se the devices in the network and the router.
The router connects our LAN Network with the internet
The main topic in this module is the IP addresses private/public, router, LAN and ISP. 
I already know the difference between private and public IP. I know what is a router, I know what is a LAN network, and ISP. 
Another term is WAN which means Wide Area Network. 

The above part I already covered in M1_1_Bazele_Reteleleor


OSI Model - 7 Layers

OSI Model           Protocols and Services        TCP/IP Model

1  Physical        Ethernet, Fi-Fi                Link
2  Datalink
3  Network          IP,ARP, ICMP                  Internet
4  Transport       TCP/UDP                        Transport
5  Session         HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, DHCP, PNG    Application
6  Presentation
7  Application


After this I installed Wireshark and watched the traffic in the Wi-Fi network. 

The next discussed topic is ARP which means Address Resolution Protocol 
In LAN without ARP the communication is not possible because in LAN the communication is established between MAC so for IP address A it will be assigned MAC address A and after that the communication in LAN will be MAC based. 

After all this the homework is: Start wireshark as admin, Scan the network traffic and make a screenshot, scan the traffic with TCP filter, HTTP filter and ARP filter. Make a screenshot for each instance. 


Next main topic is: Network simulate with Cisco Packet Tracer

After install and login in Cisco Packet Tracer create a network composing of 1 router 2911, one switch 2960, one pc and one laptop. 
Connect them with a direct cable as: a direct connection from pc to switch. Another direct connection from laptop to switch and another direct connection from switch to router. The switch and router should be connected with gigabit port. 
after the connections , click on the router and choose CLI to configure the router. 
type ? and press enter to see the options available to the router> menu. 
type enable to log in to the privileged mode. The router> is representing user mode. The router# is representing privileged mode. 
In privileged mode we have access to more functions of the router. Type ? to see the commands available to privileged mode